Spice 0.18.1-beta release notes (#2802)
spiceai/spiceai: docs/release_notes/v0.18.1-beta.md

# Spice v0.18.1-beta (Sep 23, 2024)

> The v0.18.1-beta release enhances performance for running accelerated queries across multiple datasets, introduces configurable Task History behavior, adds support for the `mssql` data connector, and improves the reliability and error handling for the `graphql`, `mysql` and `sharepoint` data connectors. It also introduces a new `spice search` CLI command, allowing users to perform embeddings-based searches across connected datasets, and adds automatic refresh triggers for the `file` data connector when changes are detected in the source data.

Reviewer: This should be > 1 sentence since we have so much in this release.

> The v0.18.1-beta release enhances performance for running accelerated queries across multiple datasets, introduces configurable Task History behavior, adds support for the `mssql` data connector, and improves the reliability and error handling for the `graphql`, `mysql` and `sharepoint` data connectors. It also introduces a new `spice search` CLI command, allowing users to perform embeddings-based searches across connected datasets, and adds automatic refresh triggers for the `file` data connector when changes are detected in the source data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The v0.18.1-beta release enhances performance for running accelerated queries across multiple datasets, introduces configurable Task History behavior, adds support for the `mssql` data connector, and improves the reliability and error handling for the `graphql`, `mysql` and `sharepoint` data connectors. It also introduces a new `spice search` CLI command, allowing users to perform vector searches across connected datasets, and adds automatic refresh triggers for the `file` data connector when changes are detected in the source data.
```

> The v0.18.1-beta release enhances performance for running accelerated queries across multiple datasets, introduces configurable Task History behavior, adds support for the `mssql` data connector, and improves the reliability and error handling for the `graphql`, `mysql` and `sharepoint` data connectors. It also introduces a new `spice search` CLI command, allowing users to perform embeddings-based searches across connected datasets, and adds automatic refresh triggers for the `file` data connector when changes are detected in the source data.

Reviewer 2: Did someone open a task to document `spice search`?

Author: I'll add a page while we are building spice

## Highlights in v0.18.1-beta

**Accelerated Queries Execution**: Accelerated queries now support federation, providing more efficient query execution.

**Microsoft SQL Server Data Connector**: Use `from: mssql:` to access and accelerate Microsoft SQL Server datasets.

Example `spicepod.yml`:

```yaml
datasets:
  - from: mssql:path.to.my_dataset
    name: my_dataset
    params:
      mssql_connection_string: ${secrets:mssql_connection_string}
```

See the [Microsoft SQL Server Data Connector documentation](https://docs.spiceai.org/components/data-connectors/mssql).

**Task History**: Task history behavior can now be configured through the Spicepod:

```yaml
runtime:
    task_history:
        enabled: true
        captured_output: truncated
        retention_period: 8h
        retention_check_interval: 15m
```

See the [Task History Spicepod reference](https://docs.spiceai.org/reference/spicepod#runtimetask_history) for more information on possible values and behaviors.

> **spice search** Use `spice search` CLI command to perform embeddings-based searches across connected datasets

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**spice search** Use `spice search` CLI command to perform embeddings-based searches across connected datasets.
```

**Refresh on File Changes**: The File Data Connector can now automatically trigger the acceleration to refresh whenever the underlying file is modified. Enable this by adding `file_watcher: enabled` to the acceleration parameters:

```yaml
datasets:
  - from: file://path/to/my_file.csv
    name: my_file
    acceleration:
      enabled: true
      refresh_mode: full
      params:
        file_watcher: enabled
```

## Breaking Changes

> `runtime.query_history` was depricated and not available. Use `runtime.task_history`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`runtime.query_history` has been deprecated and is no longer available. Please use `runtime.task_history` instead.
```
